# CheckerBoard
Description: Create a Checkerboard class that generates a board in the style of the game of checkers in JavaFX using an AnchorPane as the container for the Rectangles that make up the rectangles on the board.  Place the AnchorPane containing the checkerboard in a UI built in FXML that has menus to select the grid size and color scheme.  Allow the Stage (window) size to be changed by the user causing the size of the board to change with the size of the Stage.

Purpose: This challenge provides experience in building a class to generate a JavaFX UI.  It provides experience with JavaFX UI hierarchies and in creating an algorithm to generate the checkerboard layout.

Requirements:

This project is to be managed in a public GitHub repository. For the challenge assignment submit the Clone with HTTPS URL for the GitHub repository.  The Clone with HTTPS URL is provided when you click the green “Clone or download” button.  The final project must be in the master branch.

Project Name: Checkerboard
IDE: NetBeans
Language: Java
JDK: 8
UI: JavaFX – JavaFX objects for the CheckerBoard class and FXML/Scene Builder to create UI that displays the checkerboard and allows the user to make selections.

In this challenge, you are to create a CheckerBoard class that builds a UI hierarchy that is like the board in the game of checkers based on an AnchorPane that contains colored Rectangles. The following are examples of checkerboards generated by the CheckerBoard class. 

Figure 1. Default Colored Board (Color.RED / Color.BLACK)

CheckerBoard Red Black

Figure 2. Custom Color Scheme (Color.SKYBLUE/Color.DARKBLUE)

CheckerBoard Blue Blue

Checkers / English draughts: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_draughts (Links to an external site.)Links to an external site.

The default colored checkerboard is generated when colors are not specified via the constructor. Boards are comprised of rectangles that are a dark color or a light color. For the default colored checkerboard the light color is Color.RED and the dark color is Color.BLACK.

A normal board is 8 x 8. The top left rectangle is a light color and in each direction the rectangles alternate between a light color and a dark color. CheckerBoard instances, via two constructors, are to be configurable in the following ways:

Number of rows and number of columns.
Board width and the board height in pixels.
Colors for the light color and the dark color.
One constructor allows the colors to be specified and the other does not. If the colors
are not specified, the default board colors are to be used: Color.RED and Color.BLACK.
CheckerBoard Class Requirements:

The following are requirements for the CheckerBoard class.

Its fields are to be private.
It has two constructors.
First constructor receives: int numRows, int numCols, double boardWidth, double boardHeight
Second constructor receives: int numRows, int numCols, double boardWidth double boardHeight, Color lightColor, Color darkColor
Code is not to be duplicated in the constructors. One constructor is to use the other constructor.
It has a public build() method that builds the board UI and returns an AnchorPane as the root object.
It has a public getBoard() method that returns the AnchorPane generated by build() or null if one hasn’t been built yet.
It has the following additional public getters: getNumRows(), getNumCols(), getWidth(), getHeight(), getLightColor(), getDarkColor(), getRectangleWidth(), getRectangleHeight()
Building the checkerboard UI:

The following is information about building the checkerboard UI.

The checkerboard is to be procedurally generated from the data held in the CheckerBoard fields and is to fill the height and width. The UI is comprised of an AnchorPane that is the root object that contains Rectangle objects that represent the checkerboard rectangles. The colors of the Rectangle objects follow the rules for a checker board: the top left rectangle is a light color and in each direction the rectangles alternate between a light color and a dark color. The result is to look like the examples shown in Figures 1 and 2. The algorithm for determining the color choice for each rectangle (light or dark) as it is generated should be intelligently implemented. Hint: there is no need for flags or flip-flopping states.

Building the host UI:

The CheckerBoard class is used to build an AnchorPane that needs to be displayed in the UI of the application.  The host UI for the CheckBoard AnchorPane is to be created using FXML/Scene Builder.  The UI is to contain a MenuBar with the following Menus and MenuItems:

Grid
16 x 16
10 x 10
8 x 8
3 x 3
Colors
Default (The default which is Color.RED / Color.BLACK)
Blue (Color.SKYBLUE / Color.DARKBLUE)
Note: the info in parentheses are not be shown in the MenuItem.  They are there to indicate what colors you are to use for the Rectangles. 

Below the MenuBar the AnchorPane created by CheckerBoard is to be displayed. Typically, the way to do this is to use a VBox to hold the MenuBar and the AnchorPane.

When the user chooses a grid size from the Grid Menu that size checkerboard is to be displayed.  When the user chooses a color scheme from the Colors menu the board is to be rendered with Rectangles with the colors indicated in the parentheses after the color scheme.

The size of the AnchorPane for the checkerboard is to be based on the size of the area in the Stage below the MenuBar.  When the Stage resizes the checkerboard is to resize.
